Ok, so here we are in the last tutorial
of the chapter. Here I will just
explain what nested loops are, what they
look like, and the basic concept of them. Well,
there's nothing really new here that I will
show you primarily because I
have shown you already how the loops
work, and for ths demonstration I
will use the for loop. It is a simple
matter of putting another loop inside
the body of the first loop and so on and
so forth.
Nothing more than that. So, anyway we
have M & N values
and "Enter M and N, seperated by space"
In the loop we have the first loop
basically just says while ""i <=N" So, here's what will happen.
This will be the first iteration, this entire thing will be the first
iteration of the first for loop. So, the
entire inner for loop will finish, it
will go from 1 to N the entire
iteration will finish, and it will print
out stars. So, this entire iteration
will complete, it will go into the new
line, and then we will go into the next
iteration of the for loop. Again, for each
iteration of the for loop, of the first
for loop, the entire iteration of the
inner loop will occur, can just
imagine what the output will be? So,
we're basically printing out stars,
several stars in one line at a time, and
we're specifying basically M and N.
They're basically the height and the
length, let's put it like that. You can
you can look at it in such a fashion. So,
let's go ahead and run this. This is so typical of me...what am I missing? Of course, "cout" So, let's do
it.
So, M and N, let's say 10 x 10. There we go, 10 x 10. They're all printed out
listed there. You can print various forms, play around with it.
You know what?
Try to print a triangle. Try to
print a right triangle, see how that
works out for you. You will need to, I'm not going to do it for you.
You can find plenty of examples on how to do this on the net, there's like 10 billion
examples it's a textbook example,
but don't don't immediately go and jump
to it to see how other people have done
it.
Try to do it yourself. Really try to
do it. I mean it does help you out with the
logic.a little bit. It does help you out with logic. Let me just give you a small hint. You
will need to use the index,
the iterator, from the first loop in the
as a value for the second loop. So, most
likely you don't even need to bother
with M and N, you can put fixed values,
and you probably won't need the N, the N
will most likely become the i, so the i
will stand somewhere here instead of the
N. Anyway, that's my hint for you
that the i will go down as well. So, i
will be here but it will also be down
here, something like that. The value of i
anyway. So, think about it that's just my
hint, but you don't need to follow my hint,
you can do it anyway you like. I would
advise you to try to do it as I said it
helps me out a lot with logic. Anyway,
just jumping to a conclusion real quick.
So, loops are real useful and often used
in programs, actually very often used in
programs. There are three main types of
loops. You have a for loop, you have a
while loop, and you have a do while loop
as well. A bit modified version of the
loop is the for each loop, but everything a
for each loop can do, well it can
also be done with a for loop, as well as with a while
loop as well. However, for each is useful
for certain for certain segments I can
guarantee that to you. You will see a
loop used pretty much anywhere and more or less in
any program written in C++ any more
complex program that is will contain
some sort of a loop in it. That should be
it as far as the loop chapter is
concerned. Feel free to post questions in
the Q&A section, ask as many as you like.
We will be happy to help you out anyway
we can either I or some of my staff
members, somebody's gonna be there to
provide answers for you. That's it as far
as this chapter is concerned, after this
we're jumping into a whole new world!
No, just another chapter.